[IMP] inventory: CRL - replenishment & visibility days (#11444)
odoo/documentation: content/applications/inventory_and_mrp/inventory/warehouses_storage/replenishment/reordering_rules.rst

- :ref:`Reordering rules setup <inventory/warehouses_storage/configure-rr>`
- :ref:`Trigger <inventory/product_management/trigger>`
- :ref:`Preferred route <inventory/warehouses_storage/route>`

To understand and optimize replenishment using advanced features, see:

- :ref:`Just in time logic <inventory/warehouses_storage/just-in-time>`
- :ref:`Visibility days <inventory/product_management/visibility-days>`

.. _inventory/warehouses_storage/configure-rr:

Reordering rules setup
======================

To configure automatic and manual reordering rules, complete the following:

#. :ref:`Product type configuration <inventory/warehouses_storage/set-product-type>`
#. :ref:`Create rule <inventory/warehouses_storage/rr-fields>`

.. _inventory/warehouses_storage/set-product-type:

Product type configuration
--------------------------

To use reordering rules for a product, it must first be correctly configured. Begin by navigating to
:menuselection:`Inventory app --> Products --> Products`, then select an existing product, or create
a new one by clicking :guilabel:`New`.

On the product form, under the :guilabel:`General Information` tab, set the :guilabel:`Product Type`

> to :guilabel:`Storable Product`. This is necessary because Odoo only tracks stock quantities for

Author: It's not a value, as it's an element in a drop-down menu (: we render things as literal if it's something a user types, like a Quantity or Price of `12.00`, and a product name `Combination Table`

storable products, and this number is used to trigger reordering rules.

.. image:: reordering_rules/product-type.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Set the Product Type as Storable.

> Next, click the :guilabel:`Inventory` tab and select one or more routes from the :guilabel:`Routes`

Author: There is a perfect doc for this yet /:

- :ref:`Trigger <inventory/product_management/trigger>`
- :ref:`Preferred route <inventory/warehouses_storage/route>`
- :ref:`Vendor <inventory/warehouses_storage/set-vendor>`
- :ref:`Bill of materials <inventory/warehouses_storage/set-bom-field>`
- :ref:`Procurement group <inventory/warehouses_storage/procurement-grp>`
- :ref:`Visibility days <inventory/product_management/visibility-days>`

.. note::
   The fields above are not available by default, and must be enabled by selecting the
   :icon:`oi-settings-adjust` :guilabel:`(adjust)` icon in the far-right corner, and selecting the
   desired column from the drop-down menu.

.. _inventory/product_management/trigger:

Trigger
=======

A reordering rule's *trigger* can be set to *automatic* or *manual*. While both function the same
way, the difference between the two types of reordering rules is how the rule is launched:

- :ref:`Auto <inventory/warehouses_storage/auto-rr>`: a purchase or manufacturing is automatically
  created when the forecasted stock falls below the reordering rule's minimum. By default, the
  :guilabel:`Auto` trigger is selected.

> - :ref:`Manual <inventory/warehouses_storage/manual-rr>`: receive a suggestion on the
>   :doc:`Replenishment report <report>`, so the user can review the stock levels, lead times, and
>   forecasted dates of arrival, before clicking the *Order Once* button.

Author: ```suggestion
- :ref:`Manual <inventory/warehouses_storage/manual-rr>`: On the
  :doc:`Replenishment report <report>`, products needing to be reordered are listed, with the current and forecasted stock levels, lead times, and
  forecasted dates of arrival. From this menu, users can strategically review forecasted stock before clicking the *Order Once* button.
```

To enable the :guilabel:`Trigger` field, go to :menuselection:`Inventory app --> Operations -->
Replenishment` or :menuselection:`Inventory app --> Configuration --> Reordering Rules`. Then, click
the :icon:`oi-settings-adjust` :guilabel:`(adjust)` icon, located to the far-right of the column
titles, and tick the :guilabel:`Trigger` checkbox.

In the :guilabel:`Trigger` column, select :guilabel:`Auto` or :guilabel:`Manual`. Refer to the
sections below to learn about the different types of reordering rules.

.. _inventory/warehouses_storage/auto-rr:

Auto
----

> Automatic reordering rules, enabled by setting the reordering rule's :guilabel:`Trigger` field to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*Automatic reordering rules*, enabled by setting the reordering rule's :guilabel:`Trigger` field to
```

> :guilabel:`Auto`, generate purchase or manufacturing orders when:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:guilabel:`Auto`, generate purchase or manufacturing orders when either:
```

> #. the scheduler runs, and the *Forecasted* quantity is below the minimum

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. The scheduler runs, and the *Forecasted* quantity is below the minimum, or
```

> #. a sales order is confirmed, and lowers the *Forecasted* quantity of the product below the minimum

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. a sales order is confirmed, and lowers the *Forecasted* quantity of the product below the minimum
```
```suggestion
#. A sales order is confirmed, and lowers the *Forecasted* quantity of the product below the minimum.
```

> .. tip::

Reviewer: This is the first time I'm reading about the scheduler. Maybe instead of a `.. tip::`, there can be a separate sub-section to talk about the scheduler?

      :align: center
      :alt: Show automatic reordering rule from the Reordering Rule page.

> If the :guilabel:`Buy` route is selected, then an |RFQ| is generated. To view and manage |RFQs|,

Reviewer: This and the following paragraphs should be moved above the tip and example blocks. They look too lost in the UI as-is.

navigate to :menuselection:`Purchase app --> Orders --> Requests for Quotation`.

If the :guilabel:`Manufacture` route is selected, then an |MO| is generated. To view and manage
|MOs|, navigate to :menuselection:`Manufacturing app --> Operations --> Manufacturing Orders`.

When no route is selected, Odoo selects the :guilabel:`Route` specified in the :guilabel:`Inventory`
tab of the product form.

.. _inventory/warehouses_storage/manual-rr:

Manual
------

> Manual reordering rules, configured by setting the reordering rule's :guilabel:`Trigger` field to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*Manual reordering rules*, configured by setting the reordering rule's :guilabel:`Trigger` field to
```

to :menuselection:`Inventory app --> Configuration --> Reordering Rules` or
:menuselection:`Inventory app --> Operations --> Replenishment`.

Click inside of the column on the row of a reordering rule, and a drop-down menu shows all available
routes for that rule. Select one to set it as the preferred route.

.. image:: reordering_rules/select-preferred-route.png
   :alt: Select a preferred route from the drop-down.

.. important::
   If multiple routes are enabled for a product but no preferred route is set for its reordering
   rule, the product is reordered using the selected route that is listed first on the
   :guilabel:`Inventory` tab of the product form.

Advanced uses
-------------

Pairing :guilabel:`Preferred Route` with one of the following fields on the replenishment report
unlocks advanced configurations of reordering rules. Consider the following:

.. _inventory/warehouses_storage/set-vendor:

- :guilabel:`Vendor`: When the selected :guilabel:`Preferred Route` is :guilabel:`Buy`, setting the
  :guilabel:`Vendor` field to one of the multiple vendors on the vendor pricelist indicates to Odoo

>   that is the vendor to prioritize when making orders.

Reviewer: Be more explicit - if that is the vendor to prioritize, does Odoo automatically populate this vendor on POs then?

.. _inventory/warehouses_storage/set-bom-field:

- :guilabel:`Bill of Materials`: When the :guilabel:`Preferred Route` is set to
  :guilabel:`Manufacture`, and there are multiple |BoMs| in use, specifying the desired |BoM| in the

>   replenishment report prioritizes it for draft manufacturing orders triggered by reordering rules.

Reviewer: Same question - what does prioritizing mean in this context?

>   :guilabel:`Manufacture`, and there are multiple |BoMs| in use, specifying the desired |BoM| in the
>   replenishment report prioritizes it for draft manufacturing orders triggered by reordering rules.

Author: ```suggestion
  :guilabel:`Manufacture`, and there are multiple |BoMs| in use, specifying the desired |BoM| in the
  replenishment report, draft manufacturing orders are created with this |BoM| in use.
```

.. _inventory/warehouses_storage/procurement-grp:

> - :guilabel:`Procurement Group`: is a way to group related purchase or manufacturing orders that

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- :guilabel:`Procurement Group`: is a way to group related purchase or manufacturing orders that
```
```suggestion
- :guilabel:`Procurement Group`: This is a way to group related |POs| or |MOs| that
```

>   are tied to fulfilling a specific demand, like a |SO| or a project. It helps organize and track

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  are tied to fulfilling a specific demand, like an |SO| or a project. It helps organize and track
```

>   which orders are linked to a particular demand.

Reviewer: Not sure what is meant by "a particular demand".

  .. note::
     Procurement groups link replenishment methods to demand, enabling smart buttons to appear when
     using the :ref:`MTO route <inventory/warehouse_storage/mto-route>`.

>      .. figure:: reordering_rules/po-smartbutton.png

Reviewer: I don't see the words 'Procurement Group' anywhere in this image. A little confused what I am looking at.

     are handled separately?

     #. Set the :guilabel:`Procurement Group` to `SO35`, in the reordering rule for all five
        products. This groups the demands for `SO35` in the same |RFQ| or |MO|.
     #. Set the :guilabel:`Vendor` to `Azure Interior` to ensure the |RFQ| is created for the same
        supplier.
     #. Set the :guilabel:`Preferred Route` to :guilabel:`Buy` to generate an |RFQ|.
     #. Click the :guilabel:`Order Once` button to generate a single |RFQ| for the five products
        tied to `SO35`.

     After placing the order, remove `SO35` from the :guilabel:`Procurement Group` field of the five
     products' reordering rules. This ensures future demands for these products are managed
     separately and assigned to different |RFQs| (the usual behavior).

.. _inventory/warehouses_storage/just-in-time:

Just in time logic
==================

*Just in time logic* in Odoo minimizes storage costs by placing orders precisely to meet deadlines.
This is achieved using the :ref:`forecasted date <inventory/warehouses_storage/forecasted-date>`,
which determines when replenishment is necessary to avoid overstocking.

> The :ref:`forecasted date <inventory/warehouses_storage/forecasted-date>` is the **earliest possible

Author: ```suggestion
The forecasted date is the **earliest possible
```

date** to receive a product if the replenishment process starts immediately. It is calculated by
summing the lead times linked to the replenishment process, such as :ref:`vendor lead times
<inventory/management/purchase-lt>` and :ref:`purchasing delays

> <inventory/management/purchase-security-lt>` for purchases, or manufacturing lead times for

Author: ```suggestion
<inventory/management/purchase-security-lt>` for purchases, or :ref:`manufacturing lead times <manuf>` for
```

  more flexibility.
- While lead times and just-in-time logic provide additional control, **reordering rules work
  perfectly fine without them**. Keeping delivery dates on sales orders as their *creation date*
  ensures purchases are immediately triggered when needed

.. _inventory/warehouses_storage/forecasted-date:

Forecasted date and To Order quantity
-------------------------------------

To view the *forecasted date*, go to the replenishment report and click the :icon:`fa-info-circle`
:guilabel:`(info)` icon for the desired reordering rule. The :guilabel:`Replenishment Information`
pop-up window displays the :guilabel:`Forecasted Date` and various lead times.

The *forecasted date* is the total time needed to procure a product in Odoo. It is calculated by
summing the lead times linked to the product's replenishment process. The total of these lead times,
added to the current date, determines the when Odoo checks for demanded stock.

.. important::
   The forecasted date is the **earliest possible date** to receive the product if the replenishment
   process began right **now**.

.. example::
   A manual reordering rule is set up with no minimum or maximum quantities.

>    - Vendor lead time is 4 days, the purchase security lead time is 1 day, and the days to purchase

Author: Gui formatting is used only when we're referring to the UI. Here, the lead times and stuff are concepts to consider (:

inventory minimal while ensuring future requirements are ordered at the last possible
moment—strategic procrastination without the stress!

Common confusion about forecasted quantities
--------------------------------------------

|SOs| due **after** the :guilabel:`Forecasted Date` are not accounted for in the
:guilabel:`Forecast` quantities of the reordering rule.

They are, however, accounted for on the forecasted report that is opened by clicking the
:icon:`fa-area-chart` :guilabel:`(graph)` icon on the replenishment report, as this one represents
the **long-term forecasted quantity**.

.. example::

   .. figure:: report/zero-forecast.png
      :alt: Forecast and To Order quantities is zero.

      Continuing the above example, when the sales order's deadline is adjusted to December 4th, the
      :guilabel:`Forecast` and :guilabel:`To Order` quantities are zero.

   .. figure:: report/five-forecast.png
      :alt: Show forecasted report.

      Opening the :guilabel:`Forecasted Report` shows the :guilabel:`Forecasted` units is `5.00`.

.. _inventory/product_management/visibility-days:

Visibility days
===============

> *Visibility days* enables the ability to determine if additional quantities should be added to the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*Visibility days* enable the ability to determine if additional quantities should be added to the
```

> planned replenishment. Odoo checks:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
planned replenishment. Odoo checks
```

> - If forecasted stock on the forecasted date will drop below the minimum in the reordering rule.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
if forecasted stock on the forecasted date will drop below the minimum in the reordering rule.
```

Reviewer: I would turn this into a paragraph instead of bullet points, the way things are worded.

> - **Only if** it is time to reorder, visibility days check additional future demand, by the
>   specified number of days.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Only if** it is time to reorder, visibility days check additional future demand by the specified number of days.
```

This feature helps consolidate orders by grouping immediate and near-future needs, reducing
transport costs and enabling supplier discounts for larger orders.

To set visibility days to incorporate orders for a specified number of days in the future, navigate
to :menuselection:`Inventory app --> Operations --> Replenishment`, or by clicking the *Reordering
Rules* smart button from the product form.

Next, enable the :guilabel:`Visibility Days` field by clicking the :icon:`oi-settings-adjust`
:guilabel:`(adjust)` icon to the far right and choosing the feature from the drop-down menu. Then,
enter the desired visibility days.

.. important::

>    The forecasted date is never pushed forward or extended; only if the stock at the forecasted date
>    arrives below the minimum threshold is when Odoo checks the extra visibility days.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   The forecasted date is never pushed forward or extended; only if the stock at the forecasted date
   arrives below the minimum threshold is when Odoo checks the extra visibility days.
```
```suggestion
   The forecasted date is never pushed forward or extended; Odoo only checks the extra visibility days if the stock falls below the minimum threshold on the forecasted date.
```

> Example where visibility days is triggered

Reviewer: This example is SO helpful! Great job!! Do you think it should be in an `.. example::` block instead?

------------------------------------------

A product shipped from Asia has a combined vendor lead time of 30 days and a shipping cost of $100
(including :doc:`landed costs

> <../../product_management/inventory_valuation/integrating_landed_costs>` and tariffs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<../../product_management/inventory_valuation/integrating_landed_costs>` and tariffs).
```

> - **November 4**: Current date. The forecasted date is December 4 (30 days later).

Reviewer: Is there a reason November 4 is bolded but the beginning of other bullets are not?

Author: ```suggestion
- November 4: Current date. The forecasted date is December 4 (30 days later).
```

     using the :ref:`MTO route <inventory/warehouse_storage/mto-route>`.

     .. figure:: reordering_rules/po-smartbutton.png
        :alt: Showing smart button to PO.

        Sales order (demand) with a linked purchase order (replenishment method).

  In the context of reordering rules:

  - Reordering rules do not automatically assign a procurement group, which is why there are no
    smart buttons that link |SOs| to |POs|, unlike the :abbr:`MTO (Make to Order)` route.
  - To enable smart buttons for products replenished by reordering rules (not :abbr:`MTO (Make to
    Order)`), with specific quantities linked to specific demands (e.g. |SOs|), assign a procurement
    group.
  - Without a procurement group, demands for the same product can be combined into a single |RFQ|,
    even if the reordering rule is executed multiple times for those demands. This allows for more
    efficient procurement by consolidating demands into fewer orders.

  Selecting a procurement group in the :guilabel:`Procurement Group` field on the replenishment
  report ensures that all linked orders are grouped under the same demand, based on the defined
  route.

>   .. spoiler:: How can you set the Procurement Group, Vendor, and Preferred Route fields on the
>      replenishment report to generate a single RFQ for five different products in sales order SO35,
>      given they share the same vendor, Azure Interior, and ensure other demands for these products
>      are handled separately?
> 
>      #. Set the :guilabel:`Procurement Group` to `SO35`, in the reordering rule for all five
>         products. This groups the demands for `SO35` in the same |RFQ| or |MO|.
>      #. Set the :guilabel:`Vendor` to `Azure Interior` to ensure the |RFQ| is created for the same
>         supplier.
>      #. Set the :guilabel:`Preferred Route` to :guilabel:`Buy` to generate an |RFQ|.
>      #. Click the :guilabel:`Order Once` button to generate a single |RFQ| for the five products
>         tied to `SO35`.
> 
>      After placing the order, remove `SO35` from the :guilabel:`Procurement Group` field of the five
>      products' reordering rules. This ensures future demands for these products are managed
>      separately and assigned to different |RFQs| (the usual behavior).

Reviewer 2: I think this great! You may want to consider using the :exercise: admonition in combination with the spoiler, as the center aligned exercise question is a little hard to read. Up to you!

![exercise-fs8](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/f7877d62-6aaa-4cd6-90d2-182e51881de6)

```suggestion
  .. exercise::
     How can you set the *Procurement Group*, *Vendor*, and *Preferred Route* fields on the
     replenishment report to generate a single |RFQ| for five different products in sales order
     SO35, given they share the same vendor, Azure Interior, and ensure other demands for these
     products are handled separately?

     .. spoiler:: View the answer

        #. Set the :guilabel:`Procurement Group` to `SO35`, in the reordering rule for all five
           products. This groups the demands for `SO35` in the same |RFQ| or |MO|.
        #. Set the :guilabel:`Vendor` to `Azure Interior` to ensure the |RFQ| is created for the
           same supplier.
        #. Set the :guilabel:`Preferred Route` to :guilabel:`Buy` to generate an |RFQ|.
        #. Click the :guilabel:`Order Once` button to generate a single |RFQ| for the five products
           tied to `SO35`.

        | After placing the order, remove `SO35` from the :guilabel:`Procurement Group` field of the
          five products' reordering rules. This ensures future demands for these products are
          managed separately and assigned to different |RFQs| (the usual behavior).
```

Author: Wonderful suggestion, thank you @samueljlieber :D
